2.4 update to the Scheduling guide (#429)
astronomer/airflow-guides: guides/scheduling-in-airflow.md

tags: ["DAGs"]
---

One of the most fundamental features of Apache Airflow is the ability to schedule jobs. Historically, Airflow users could schedule their DAGs by specifying a `schedule` (`schedule_interval` in Airflow version 2.3 or older) with a cron expression, a timedelta, or a preset Airflow schedule.

Timetables, released in Airflow 2.2, brought new flexibility to scheduling. Timetables allow users to create their own custom schedules using Python, effectively eliminating the limitations of cron. With timetables, you can now schedule DAGs to run at any time for any use case.

> Airflow 2.4 introduced the concept of Datasets and with it the ability to schedule your DAG depending on other DAGs touching specific data objects. A more in-depth explanation on these features can be found in the [Datasets and Data Driven Scheduling in Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-datasets/) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, Airflow 2.4 introduced datasets and the ability to schedule your DAGs on updates to a dataset rather than a time-based schedule. A more in-depth explanation on these features can be found in the [Datasets and Data Driven Scheduling in Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-datasets/) guide.
```

In this guide, we'll walk through Airflow scheduling concepts and the different ways you can schedule a DAG with a focus on timetables. For additional instructions check out our [Scheduling in Airflow webinar](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/trigger-dags-any-schedule).  

> Note: All code in this guide can be found in [this repo](https://github.com/astronomer/airflow-scheduling-tutorial).

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have knowledge of:

- What Airflow is and when to use it. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/intro-to-airflow).

> - The concept and parameters of an Airflow DAG. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/dags/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Parameters of Airflow DAGs. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/dags/).
```

> - How to interact with date and time in Python3. See the [Python documentation on the `datetime` package](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Date and time modules in Python3. See the [Python documentation on the `datetime` package](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html).
```

> Note: in this guide we do not cover the `execution_date` concept, which has been deprecated as of Airflow 2.2. If you are using older versions of Airflow, review [this doc](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/faq.html#faq-what-does-execution-date-mean) for more on `execution_date`.

### Parameters

The following parameters are derived from the concepts described above and are important for ensuring your DAG runs at the correct time.

- **`data_interval_start`**: A datetime object defining the start date and time of the data interval. A DAG's timetable will return this parameter for each DAG run. This parameter is either created automatically by Airflow, or can be specified by the user when implementing a custom timetable.
- **`data_interval_end`**: A datetime object defining the end date and time of the data interval. A DAG's timetable will return this parameter for each DAG run. This parameter is either created automatically by Airflow, or can be specified by the user when implementing a custom timetable.

> - **`schedule`**: A parameter that can be set at the DAG level to define when that DAG will be run. In Airflow 2.3 or older, this parameter is called `schedule_interval`. It accepts cron expressions, timedelta objects and lists of Datasets (see the next sections for more on this). Starting in Airflow 2.2 the information provided to `schedule` will be automatically converted to a timetable by Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`schedule`**: A parameter that can be set at the DAG level to define when that DAG will be run. In Airflow 2.3 or older, this parameter is called `schedule_interval`. It accepts cron expressions, timedelta objects, timetables, and lists of datasets.
```

I'm taking out the note about everything being converted to timetables under the hood, because I'm guessing that's not actually true of datasets (also a potentially confusing thing that users probably don't actually need to know about).

> - **`timetable`**: A parameter that can be set at the DAG level to define its timetable (either custom or built-in). Timetables can be defined explicitly within the DAG (more on this below), or will be determined automatically by Airflow in cases where a `schedule` is provided. Either a `timetable` or a `schedule` should be defined for each DAG, not both.

Reviewer: I think that this parameter is actually going away in favor of the combined `schedule`, so we should remove this bullet entirely.

### Example

As a simple example of how these concepts work together, say we have a DAG that is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. Taking the most recent DAG run, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:37:33`, which is the same as the `data_interval_start` shown in the bottom right corner of in the screenshot below. The `data_interval_end` is 5 minutes later.

![5 Minute Example DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/scheduling-in-airflow/2_4_5minExample.png)

If we look at the next run in the UI, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:42:33`. This is 5 minutes after the previous logical date, and the same as the `data_interval_end` of the last DAG run since there are no gaps in the schedule. The data interval of the next DAG run is also shown. Run After, which is the date and time that the next DAG run is scheduled for, is the same as the current DAG run's `data_interval_end`: `2022-08-28 19:47:33`.

![5 Minute Next Run](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/scheduling-in-airflow/2_4_5minExample_next_run.png)

In the sections below, we'll walk through how to use the `schedule` parameter or timetables to schedule your DAG.

## Schedule interval

> For pipelines with basic schedules, you can define a `schedule` in your DAG. For versions of Airflow prior to 2.2, this (with the parameter being named `schedule_interval`) is the *only* mechanism for defining a DAG's schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For pipelines with basic schedules, you can define a `schedule` in your DAG. For versions of Airflow prior to 2.2, this (with the parameter being named `schedule_interval`) is the *only* mechanism for defining a DAG's schedule.
```
I think we should put a "> Note:" somewhere about the schedule_interval to schedule change, and then probably don't need to mention it every time.

> ### Setting a schedule interval

Reviewer: Think we should update this to "Setting a schedule"?

Each DAG run therefore has a `logical_date` that is separate from the time that the DAG run is expected to begin (`logical_date` was called `execution_date` before Airflow 2.2). A DAG run is not actually allowed to run until the `logical_date` for the *following* DAG run has passed. So if you are running a daily DAG, Monday's DAG run will not actually execute until Tuesday. In this example, the `logical_date` would be Monday 12:01 AM, even though the DAG run will not actually begin until Tuesday 12:01 AM.

If you want to pass a timestamp to the DAG run that represents "the earliest time at which this DAG run could have started", use `{{ next_ds }}` from the [jinja templating macros](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/templates-ref.html).

> **Note**: It is best practice to make each DAG run idempotent (able to be re-run without changing the result) which precludes using `datetime.now()`.

> ### Schedule limitations

Reviewer: Since "schedule" now applies to everything, I wonder if we need to rename this section and some of the language a bit. Like..."Cron schedule limitations"....?

tags: ["DAGs"]
---

> One of the most fundamental features of Apache Airflow is the ability to schedule jobs. Historically, Airflow users could schedule their DAGs by specifying a `schedule` with a cron expression, a timedelta object, or a preset Airflow schedule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the fundamental features of Apache Airflow is the ability to schedule jobs. Historically, Airflow users could schedule their DAGs by specifying a `schedule` with a cron expression, a timedelta object, or a preset Airflow schedule.
```

Timetables, released in Airflow 2.2, brought new flexibility to scheduling. Timetables allow users to create their own custom schedules using Python, effectively eliminating the limitations of cron. With timetables, you can now schedule DAGs to run at any time for any use case.

Additionally, Airflow 2.4 introduced datasets and the ability to schedule your DAGs on updates to a dataset rather than a time-based schedule. A more in-depth explanation on these features can be found in the [Datasets and Data Driven Scheduling in Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-datasets/) guide.

In this guide, we'll walk through Airflow scheduling concepts and the different ways you can schedule a DAG with a focus on timetables. For additional instructions check out our [Scheduling in Airflow webinar](https://www.astronomer.io/events/webinars/trigger-dags-any-schedule).  

> Note: All code in this guide can be found in [this repo](https://github.com/astronomer/airflow-scheduling-tutorial).

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have knowledge of:

> - What Airflow is and when to use it. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/intro-to-airflow).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/intro-to-airflow).
```

> - Parameters of Airflow DAGs. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/dags/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Configuring Airflow DAGs. See [Introduction to Airflow DAGs](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/dags/).
```

- Date and time modules in Python3. See the [Python documentation on the `datetime` package](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html).

## Scheduling concepts

There are a couple of terms and parameters in Airflow that are important to understand related to scheduling.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ### Terms

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- **Logical Date**: The logical date of a DAG run is the same as the *start* of the data interval. It does not represent when the DAG will actually be executed. Prior to Airflow 2.2, this was referred to as the execution date.
- **Timetable**: The timetable is a property of a DAG that dictates the data interval and logical date for each DAG run (i.e. it determines when a DAG will be scheduled).  
- **Run After**: The earliest time the DAG can be scheduled. This date is shown in the Airflow UI, and may be the same as the end of the data interval depending on your DAG's timetable.
- **Backfilling and Catchup**: We won't cover these concepts in depth here, but they can be related to scheduling. We recommend reading [the Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html) on them to understand how they work and whether they're relevant for your use case.

> > Note: in this guide we do not cover the `execution_date` concept, which has been deprecated as of Airflow 2.2. If you are using older versions of Airflow, review [this doc](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/faq.html#faq-what-does-execution-date-mean) for more on `execution_date`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: In this guide we do not cover the `execution_date` concept, which has been deprecated as of Airflow 2.2. If you are using older versions of Airflow, review [this doc](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/faq.html#faq-what-does-execution-date-mean) for more on `execution_date`.
```

### Parameters

The following parameters are derived from the concepts described above and are important for ensuring your DAG runs at the correct time.

- **`data_interval_start`**: A datetime object defining the start date and time of the data interval. A DAG's timetable will return this parameter for each DAG run. This parameter is either created automatically by Airflow, or can be specified by the user when implementing a custom timetable.
- **`data_interval_end`**: A datetime object defining the end date and time of the data interval. A DAG's timetable will return this parameter for each DAG run. This parameter is either created automatically by Airflow, or can be specified by the user when implementing a custom timetable.
- **`schedule`**: A parameter that can be set at the DAG level to define when that DAG will be run. It accepts cron expressions, timedelta objects, timetables, and lists of datasets.
- **`start_date`**: The first date your DAG will be executed. This parameter is required for your DAG to be scheduled by Airflow.
- **`end_date`**: The last date your DAG will be executed. This parameter is optional.

> > **Note** In Airflow 2.3 or older, the `schedule` parameter was called `schedule_interval` and only accepted cron expressions or timedelta objects. Timetables had to be passed to Airflow using the now obsolete `timetable` parameter. For versions of Airflow prior to 2.2 specifying the `schedule_interval` was the only mechanism for defining a DAG's schedule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note** In Airflow 2.3 or older, the `schedule` parameter is called `schedule_interval` and only accepts cron expressions or timedelta objects. Additionally, timetables have to be passed using the `timetable` parameter, which is deprecated in Airflow 2.4+. In versions of Airflow 2.2 and earlier, specifying `schedule_interval` is the only way to define a DAG's schedule.
```
I tried rewriting this note to make 2.3 sound less past-tense, as there will still be plenty of people using that version who might look to this guide for guidance.

### Example

> As a simple example of how these concepts work together, say we have a DAG that is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. Taking the most recent DAG run, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:37:33`, which is the same as the `data_interval_start` shown in the bottom right corner of in the screenshot below. The `data_interval_end` is 5 minutes later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a simple example of how these concepts work together, say we have a DAG that is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. Looking at the most recent DAG run, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:37:33`, which is the same as the **Data interval start** shown in the bottom right corner of in the screenshot below. The **Data interval end** is 5 minutes later.
```

![5 Minute Example DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/scheduling-in-airflow/2_4_5minExample.png)

> If we look at the next run in the UI, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:42:33`. This is 5 minutes after the previous logical date, and the same as the `data_interval_end` of the last DAG run since there are no gaps in the schedule. The data interval of the next DAG run is also shown. Run After, which is the date and time that the next DAG run is scheduled for, is the same as the current DAG run's `data_interval_end`: `2022-08-28 19:47:33`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we look at the next DAG run in the UI, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:42:33`. This is 5 minutes after the previous logical date, and the same as the **Data interval end** of the last DAG run because there are no gaps in the schedule. If we hover over **Next Run**, we can see that **Run After**, which is the date and time that the next DAG run is scheduled for, is also the same as the current DAG run's **Data interval end**:
```

> If we look at the next run in the UI, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:42:33`. This is 5 minutes after the previous logical date, and the same as the `data_interval_end` of the last DAG run since there are no gaps in the schedule. The data interval of the next DAG run is also shown. Run After, which is the date and time that the next DAG run is scheduled for, is the same as the current DAG run's `data_interval_end`: `2022-08-28 19:47:33`.

Reviewer 2: For some reason, extending this example so that it extends across 3 DAG runs is really confusing to me. I think it's because I was trying to understand something new about the schedule from the second example, when in reality it's a repeat of the example before. Maybe we should keep this to a single example?

I understand that this is sort of out of the scope of the 2.4 edits, so feel free to ignore and we can update this at another time.

Author: I think the reason why the example is confusing is because it is a bit vague about how many DAG runs and which of them it is talking about at any point. (I want to write "almost wrong" in the explanation of **Run After** which... not a great sign if I can't definitively say if it is right or wrong 😅) Yeah, I may have muddled this when editing it with new times or the meaning of "Run After" and "Next Run" changed between versions. 🤔 

I edited it to only talk about 2 DAG runs and list them explicitly again at the end including all their timestamps. That way it is hopefully clearer but we still explain what **Next Run** and **Run after** are. @kentdanas and @jwitz what do you think? 🙂

![5 Minute Next Run](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/scheduling-in-airflow/2_4_5minExample_next_run.png)

> In the sections below, we'll walk through how to use the `schedule` parameter or timetables to schedule your DAG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the sections below, we'll walk through how to use cron-based schedule, timetables, or datasets to schedule your DAG.
```

## Cron-based schedules

For pipelines with simple scheduling needs, you can define a `schedule` in your DAG using:

> - a cron expression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A cron expression
```

> - a cron preset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A cron preset
```

> - a timedelta object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A timedelta object
```

> - A cron expression
> - A cron preset
> - A timedelta object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A cron expression.
- A cron preset.
- A timedelta object.
```

#### Cron presets

Airflow can utilize cron presets for common, basic schedules.

For example, `schedule='@hourly'` will schedule the DAG to run at the beginning of every hour. For the full list of presets, check out the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html#cron-presets). If your DAG does not need to run on a schedule and will only be triggered manually or externally triggered by another process, you can set `schedule=None`.

#### Timedelta objects

If you want to schedule your DAG on a particular cadence (hourly, every 5 minutes, etc.) rather than at a specific time, you can pass a `timedelta` object imported from the [`datetime` package](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html) to the `schedule` parameter. For example, `schedule=timedelta(minutes=30)` will run the DAG every thirty minutes, and `schedule=timedelta(days=1)` will run the DAG every day.

> **Note**: Do not make your DAG's schedule dynamic (e.g. `datetime.now()`)! This will cause an error in the Scheduler.

### Cron-based schedules & the logical date

> Airflow was originally developed for ETL under the expectation that data is constantly flowing in from some source and then will be summarized on a regular interval. If you want to summarize Monday's data, you can only do it after Monday is over (Tuesday at 12:01 AM). However, this assumption has turned out to be ill suited to the many other things Airflow is being used for now. This discrepancy is what led to Timetables, which were introduced in Airflow 2.2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Airflow was originally developed for ETL under the expectation that data is constantly flowing in from some source and then will be summarized on a regular interval. If you want to summarize Monday's data, you can only do it after Monday is over (Tuesday at 12:01 AM). However, this assumption has turned out to be ill-suited to the many other things Airflow is being used for now. This discrepancy is what led to Timetables, which were introduced in Airflow 2.2.
```

- **`data_interval_end`**: A datetime object defining the end date and time of the data interval. A DAG's timetable will return this parameter for each DAG run. This parameter is either created automatically by Airflow, or can be specified by the user when implementing a custom timetable.
- **`schedule`**: A parameter that can be set at the DAG level to define when that DAG will be run. It accepts cron expressions, timedelta objects, timetables, and lists of datasets.
- **`start_date`**: The first date your DAG will be executed. This parameter is required for your DAG to be scheduled by Airflow.
- **`end_date`**: The last date your DAG will be executed. This parameter is optional.

> **Note** In Airflow 2.3 or older, the `schedule` parameter is called `schedule_interval` and only accepts cron expressions or timedelta objects. Additionally, timetables have to be passed using the `timetable` parameter, which is deprecated in Airflow 2.4+. In versions of Airflow 2.2 and earlier, specifying `schedule_interval` is the only way to define a DAG's schedule.

### Example

> As a simple example of how these concepts work together, say we have a DAG that is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. Looking at the most recent DAG run, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:37:33` (shown below **Run** next to the DAG name in the UI), which is the same as the **Data interval start** shown in the bottom right corner of in the screenshot below. The logical date is also the timestamp that will be incorporated into the **Run ID** of the DAG run which will is how the DAG run is identified in the Airflow metadata database. The **Data interval end** is 5 minutes later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a simple example of how these concepts work together, say we have a DAG that is scheduled to run every 5 minutes. Looking at the most recent DAG run, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:37:33` (shown below **Run** next to the DAG name in the UI), which is the same as the **Data interval start** shown in the bottom right corner of in the screenshot below. The logical date is also the timestamp that will be incorporated into the **Run ID** of the DAG run which is how the DAG run is identified in the Airflow metadata database. The **Data interval end** is 5 minutes later.
```

![5 Minute Example DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/scheduling-in-airflow/2_4_5minExample.png)

If we look at the next DAG run in the UI, the logical date is `2022-08-28 22:42:33`, which is shown as the **Next Run** timestamp in the UI. This is 5 minutes after the previous logical date, and the same as the **Data interval end** of the last DAG run because there are no gaps in the schedule. If we hover over **Next Run**, we can see that **Run After**, which is the date and time that the next DAG run will actually start, is also the same as the next DAG run's **Data interval end**:

![5 Minute Next Run](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/scheduling-in-airflow/2_4_5minExample_next_run.png)

> In summary we've described 2 DAG runs:

Reviewer: @TJaniF this summary is helpful, thanks for adding it! These concepts are super confusing in general, but I think this is as good a way I can think of for clarifying them.

## Timetables

[Timetables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/timetable.html), introduced in Airflow 2.2, address the limitations of cron expressions and timedeltas by allowing users to define their own schedules in Python code. All DAG schedules are determined by their internal timetable.

> Going forward, timetables will become the primary method for scheduling in Airflow. You can still define a `schedule`, but Airflow converts this to a timetable behind the scenes. And if a cron expression or timedelta is not sufficient for your use case, you can define your own timetable.

Reviewer: Wonder if we should just remove this comment? I think with the simplification to one parameter this is maybe less relevant (or maybe always just added confusion)?

This is a simple timetable that could easily be adjusted to suit other use cases. In general, timetables are completely customizable as long as the methods above are implemented.

> Note: Be careful when implementing your timetable logic that your `next_dagrun_info` method does not return a `data_interval_start` that is earlier than your DAG's `start_date`. This will result in tasks not being executed for that DAG run.

### Current Limitations

There are some limitations to keep in mind when implementing custom timetables:

- Timetable methods should return the same result every time they are called (e.g. avoid things like HTTP requests). They are not designed to implement event-based triggering.
- Timetables are parsed by the scheduler when creating DAG runs, so avoid slow or lengthy code that could impact Airflow performance.

## Dataset driven scheduling

> Airflow 2.4 introduced the concept of Datasets and data driven cross-DAG dependencies. In short, this means that you can make Airflow aware of the fact that a task in a DAG updated a data object, for example in an S3 bucket. Using that awareness, other DAGs can be scheduled depending on these updates to datasets. To do so you simply pass the datasets that have to be updated to trigger the DAG run as a list to the `schedule` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow 2.4 introduced the concept of datasets and data driven cross-DAG dependencies. In short, this means that you can make Airflow aware of the fact that a task in a DAG updated a data object. Using that awareness, other DAGs can be scheduled depending on these updates to datasets. To do so, you simply pass the names of the datasets a list to the `schedule` parameter.
```

```Python
dataset1 = Dataset(f"{DATASETS_PATH}/dataset_1.txt")
dataset2 = Dataset(f"{DATASETS_PATH}/dataset_2.txt")

with DAG(
    dag_id='dataset_dependent_example_dag',
    catchup=False,
    start_date=datetime(2022, 1, 1),
    schedule=[dataset1, dataset2],
    tags=['consumes', 'dataset-scheduled'],
) as dag:
```

> The DAG defined above will only run, once both `dataset1` and `dataset2` have been flagged as updated. These updates can occur by different tasks in different DAGs as long as they are located in the same Airflow environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DAG defined above will only run once both `dataset1` and `dataset2` have been updated. These updates can occur by different tasks in different DAGs as long as they are located in the same Airflow environment.
```

> In the Airflow UI the schedule of the DAG will be shown as `Dataset` and the Next Run column informs you how many datasets the DAG depends on and how many of them have been updated already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Airflow UI, the schedule of the DAG will be shown as `Dataset` and the Next Run column informs you how many datasets the DAG depends on and how many of them have been updated already.
```

![Dataset dependent DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/guides/scheduling-in-airflow/2_4_DatasetDependentDAG.png)

> To learn more about Datasets and data driven scheduling check out the [Datasets and Data Driven Scheduling in Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-datasets/) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about datasets and data driven scheduling, check out the [Datasets and Data Driven Scheduling in Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/airflow-datasets/) guide.
```

This is a simple timetable that could easily be adjusted to suit other use cases. In general, timetables are completely customizable as long as the methods above are implemented.

> Note: Be careful when implementing your timetable logic that your `next_dagrun_info` method does not return a `data_interval_start` that is earlier than your DAG's `start_date`. This will result in tasks not being executed for that DAG run.

### Current Limitations

There are some limitations to keep in mind when implementing custom timetables:

- Timetable methods should return the same result every time they are called (e.g. avoid things like HTTP requests). They are not designed to implement event-based triggering.
- Timetables are parsed by the scheduler when creating DAG runs, so avoid slow or lengthy code that could impact Airflow performance.

## Dataset driven scheduling

> Airflow 2.4 introduced the concept of datasets and data driven cross-DAG dependencies. In short, this means that you can make Airflow aware of the fact that a task in a DAG updated a data object. Using that awareness, other DAGs can be scheduled depending on these updates to datasets. To do so, you simply pass the names of the datasets as a list to the `schedule` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Airflow 2.4 introduced the concept of datasets and data-driven DAG dependencies. You can now make Airflow detect when a task in a DAG updates a data object. Using that awareness, other DAGs can be scheduled depending on updates to these datasets. To create a dataset-based schedule, you simply pass the names of the datasets as a list to the `schedule` parameter.
```

```Python
dataset1 = Dataset(f"{DATASETS_PATH}/dataset_1.txt")
dataset2 = Dataset(f"{DATASETS_PATH}/dataset_2.txt")

with DAG(
    dag_id='dataset_dependent_example_dag',
    catchup=False,
    start_date=datetime(2022, 8, 1),
    schedule=[dataset1, dataset2],
    tags=['consumes', 'dataset-scheduled'],
) as dag:
```

> The DAG defined above will only run once both `dataset1` and `dataset2` have been updated. These updates can occur by tasks in different DAGs as long as they are located in the same Airflow environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This DAG runs only when both `dataset1` and `dataset2` have been updated. These updates can occur by tasks in different DAGs as long as they are located in the same Airflow environment.
```
Does it have to be both? I must not have caught that in the datasets guide! Is there a syntax for running the DAG when _either_ dataset runs?

> The DAG defined above will only run once both `dataset1` and `dataset2` have been updated. These updates can occur by different tasks in different DAGs as long as they are located in the same Airflow environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DAG defined above will only run once both `dataset1` and `dataset2` have been updated. These updates can occur by tasks in different DAGs as long as they are located in the same Airflow environment.
```

> In the Airflow UI, the schedule of the DAG will be shown as `Dataset` and the Next Run column informs you how many datasets the DAG depends on and how many of them have been updated already.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Airflow UI, the DAG now has a schedule of **Dataset** and the **Next Run** column shows how many datasets the DAG depends on and how many of them have been updated.
```
